Former President Donald Trump now
suggesting the U.S.
should take a hands off
approach to the Israel-Hamas war.
Here's what he said
during an interview
with Univision on Thursday
when asked how America might help
stop the civilian killings in Gaza
So you have a war that's going on
and you're
probably going
to have to let this play out.
You're probably going
to have to let it play out
because a lot of people are dying.
There is no hatred like
the Palestinian hatred of Israel
and Jewish people.
And probably the other way around also
I don't know.
You know,
it's not as obvious,
but probably that's it.
All right.
Let's bring in CNN's Max Foster,
who is live from London.
Max, always wonderful. To see you.
Trump also said
Israel needed
to do a better job of public relations,
and he pointed to this rash
of pro-Palestinian protests in the U.S.
and obviously earlier in all of this.
He went after Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu for not being prepared.
What what is your sense of
what's going on here?
Well, I think that clip, you know,
if you move away from a lot of,
you know, how he says it
and you know
specifically what he's saying
and what he means,
which is what I try to do
with Donald Trump
when it comes to international policy,
at least it's pretty significant.
What he's effectively saying is,
you know,
he doesn't
see if we look back
at his previous tenure as well
and how he played that out
and what he's saying here
about this Middle East crisis,
it's like
he doesn't see America
as that international policeman,
which actually the rest of the world
has relied on
for decades and decades and decades.
So focusing more on American problems
which a lot of Americans will relate to.
But outside America,
that does have a huge impact
because you and I
are talking a lot
about this
new world order
that China and Russia want to create
America pulling back
for the international stage
and saying they're not going
to get involved in like crises like
the Middle East does create a vacuum.
And you know
who's going to step into that?
So it has huge repercussions.
That little soundbite for me when I
when I look at it
and if he does get into power,
are we going to see
America less president
on the international stage?
So certainly militarily, it seems.
Yeah, honestly,
it's really, really interesting.
You know,
I'm thinking about
how Vladimir Putin
is backing off
of Israeli
support for Israel
that he previously had in the context
of this.
And Trump does
have a way of picking up on things
that are going on in the electorate
and really putting his finger on things
as uncomfortable of a reality is
that might be
he does have a really strong nose for it.
And it's interesting to me
that this is what he's picking up.
Let's also, Max, talk about Nikki Haley,
because in the Republican primary debate,
she did seem to gain more ground there.
She's sort of
becoming the person who is first
in the race for second place
But she did make this statement
about Vivek Ramaswamy on the stage
because the two of them really tangled.
Take a look at what she said.
I am telling you, Putin and President
Xi are salivating
at the thought that someone like that
could become president.
They would love to come back to the mat.
What's your your take away from there?
I mean, what
what does the international community
think, if anything?
I mean,
are these two known
on the national stage?
What's what's the impression?
Well, you know,
people know about international policy,
certainly know about Nikki Haley.
She is this sort of towering figure.
She's got a lot of experience
and certainly stands out in that sense
from the
in the line up
with all the other candidates.
But if you're not into
international policy,
I don't think you would
necessarily know who she is.
People aren't watching these debates
in big numbers at all here
because Donald Trump isn't involved
and they wonder why
they're taking place, that they're not
learning about her there.
I think you really need to be
looking at running a swarm
if you're talking about
international profile
because he is a big deal and tick tock.
My kids will show me
tick tock with him in them.
Very serious
and they never show me
tick tock from Nikki Haley.
And let me just say that,
I mean, in terms of profile,
I would say he's
the only person my kids and their friends
to pick out in that entire lineup.
Apart from Trump.
That is wild and extremely,
extremely interesting.
You know,
the fake one after Nikki Haley's daughter
over tick tock.
So the fact that
people overseas know him
for being on tick tock.
Okay.
Well, it's not necessarily his
own profile.
I mean, it is that as well.
It's also people just picking up
clips from the debates
and they're always about him
and they're the ones that go
viral over here.
I guess that is kind of the
what he set out to accomplish.
All right.
Max Foster,
thank you as always, my friend.
Have a great weekend.